run to and fro through the streets of
Jerusalem see now and know and seek in
her open places if you can find a man if
there is anyone who executes judgment
who seeks the truth and I will pardon
her though they say as the Lord lives
surely they swear falsely Oh Lord are
not your eyes on the truth you have
stricken them but they have not breathed
you have consumed them but they have
refused to receive correction they have
made their faces harder than rock they
have refused to return therefore I said
surely these are poor they are foolish
for they do not know the way of the Lord
the judgment of their God I will go to
the great men and speak to them for they
have known the way of the Lord the
judgment of their God but these have
altogether broken the yoke and burst the
bonds therefore a lion from the forest
shall slay them a wolf of the desert
shall destroy them a leopard will watch
over their cities everyone who goes out
from there shall be torn in pieces
because their transgressions are many
their backslidings
have increased how shall i pardon you
for this your children have forsaken me
and sworn by those that are not gods
when I had fed them to the full then
they committed adultery and assembled
themselves by troops in the harlots
houses
they were like well-fed lusty stallions
everyone neighed after his neighbor's
wife shall I not punish them for these
things and shall I not avenge myself on
such a nation as this go up on her walls
and destroy but do not make a complete
end take away her branches for they are
not the laws for the house of Israel and
the house of Judah have dealt very
treacherously with me they have lied
about the Lord and said it is not he
neither will evil come upon us nor shall
we see sword or famine and the prophets
become wind for the word is not in them
thus shall it be done to them therefore
thus says the Lord God of hosts and
because you speak this word behold I
will make my words in your mouth fire
and this people moved and it shall
devour them behold I will bring a nation
against you from afar the house of
Israel it is a mighty nation it is an
ancient nation a nation whose language
you do not know nor can you understand
what they say their quiver is like an
open tool they are all mighty men and
they shall eat up your harvest and your
bread which your sons and daughters
should eat they shall eat up your flocks
and your herds they shall eat up your
vines and your fig trees they shall
destroy your fortified cities in which
you trust with the sword
nevertheless in those days I will not
make a complete end
and it will be when you say why does the
Lord our God do all these things to us
then you shall answer them just as you
have forsaken me and served foreign gods
in your land so you shall serve aliens
in a land that is not yours declare this
in the house of Jacob and proclaim it in
Judah hear this now all foolish people
without understanding who have eyes and
see not who have ears and hear not do
you not fear me says the Lord
well you've not trembled at my presence
who have faced the sand as the bound of
the sea by a perpetual decree that it
cannot pass beyond it and though it's
waves tossed to and fro yet they cannot
prevail though they roar yet they cannot
pass over it but this people has a
defiant and rebellious heart they have
revolted and departed they do not say in
their heart
let us now fear the Lord our God who
gives reign both the former and the
latter in its season he reserves for us
the appointed weeks of the harvest your
iniquities have turned these things away
and your sins have withheld good from
you for among my people are found wicked
men they lie in wait as one who set
snares they set a trap they catch men
as a cage is full of birds so their
houses are full of deceipt therefore
they have become great and grown rich
they have grown fat they are sleek yes
they surpass the deeds of the wicked
they do not plead the cause the cause of
the fatherless yet they prosper and the
right of the needy they do not defend it
shall I not punish them for these things
shall I not avenge myself on such a
nation as this an astonishing and
horrible thing has been committed in the
land the prophets prophesied falsely and
the priests ruled by their own power and
my people love to have itself but what
will you do in the end